# Product design

 * Sales is talking to a small number of people who are seriously interested in the product you're building. Marketing is talking to a broad audience that is generally indifferent. They're two ends of a spectrum.
 * Unless you are in one of the winner-takes-all markets (e.g. social networks), focus on the product first and only then on growth. Talk to early adopters individually and shape your product. If you fail to do so by advertising a mediocre product, you will not only have unsustainable growth (or none at all), but you will never get the feedback that you need to improve the product. You will have fewer users than expected and be blind to all your product's shortcomings.

## Growth

 * User retention is always more important than virality and fast user acquisition. You can pour a lot of water into a leaky bucket and it won't really fill. But as soon as you have mended the holes, the bucket will be filling gradually. Thus focus on retention first and foremost, which will result in sustainable growth and make all subsequent efforts more efficient. You just have to pour in enough water to find out all the leaks.
 * At the early stage of your business, start small and narrow: Do sales, not marketing. Talk to a small number of users only. This is invaluable market research that helps you find product/market fit. And you can ... enough power to reach out to a broader audience. Airbnb started by meeting with its first hosts personally, teaching them about the product and even being referred to potential new hosts, who they met in person as well. Stripe signed up its first users manually and installed the product for them. Pinterest began by recruiting users manually as well, going into cafes in Palo Alto and asking random people to try out Pinterest while gathering feedback over their shoulders.
